README.md, before:

# Website done by Ellappan Keerthivasan(S10205505) and syed sharuk (S10194023)
# NitroTyper Game
In this project the goal of the project is to make a typing/speed typing game where the user will type the random words gotten through an api before the time given runs out. If the word is typed out correctly user will gain 1 score. This project will fall under Theme 4 Gamer Crazy and is casual, entertaining and educational. Its a game you can just play to test your skills to have fun making it casual and entertaining it is also educational as you will be able to learn new words through the random words you will be typing all while improving your typing speed which is useful in this technology-based era. The game will also have different difficulty modes such as easy, medium and hard so people from all different types of typing speed will be able to enjoy themselves or for those who would like more of a challenge.
# Design Process
This website will be for anyone who would like to challenge themselves, improve their typing speed or just have a fun friendly competition. Hence, i decided to make it simplistic yet interactive and attentive. I decided to do this by making the website from simple colors with contrast and adding alot of animation to the game itself making it attractive and interesting yet smooth. This game will able the user to have fun playing a typing game while learning new words and improving their typing speed all at once.
- As a user, i want to be able to have different difficulties baseed on my skill level.
- As a user, i want the game to be smooth and easy on the eyes.
- As a user, i want interesting animations to make the game more unique.
- [ADOBE XD Wireframe](https://xd.adobe.com/view/b9c97b7a-c4ff-4405-ab44-d11395ed72df-ec9a/)
# Features
Difficulty -  Allows user to choose the difficulty that they desire easy, medium or hard.
Begin button - Game starts when they press begin not immediately when brought to site unlike other websites.
Letter Coloring - Allows to user to know if the letter they typed is correct or wrong easily.
Timer - Allows the user to see how much time is left before the game is over
Score - Allows the user to see their current score in the game
# Technologies Used
- [Jquery](https://jquery.com/)
    - The project uses JQuery to simplify DOM manipulation
- HTML
    - This project uses HTML to code the website itself.
- CSS
    - This project uses CSS to beautify the website itself.
- Javascript
    - This project uses javascript to make the game itself.
- [RandomWordAPI](https://random-word-api.herokuapp.com/home)
- Adobe XD
    - To make the wireframe for this project
# Testing
- Automated Testing
    - [W3C MarkUp Validation](https://validator.w3.org)
    - [W3C CSS Validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
    - [JS Validation](https://jshint.com/)
- Instructions page
    - Try to click on the play button and ensure it works
- Loading page
    - Ensure that the game is loaded when the loading from the loading page is finished
- Difficulty
    - Ensure that the difficulties can be clicked on
    - Ensure that easy mode is as described in instructions
    - Ensure that medium mode is as described in instructions
    - Ensure that hard mode is as described in instructions
    - Ensure that the game after finished and difficulty is changed it changes accordingly
    - Ensure that difficulty is defaulted to easy
- Timer
    - Ensure that the timer works properly and goes down every second
    - Ensure that the timer when reaches 0 the game stops
    - Ensure that in easy mode the timer gains 4 seconds per correct word
    - Ensure that in medium mode the timer gains 3 seconds per correct word
    - Ensure that in hard mode the timer gains 2 seconds per correct word
    - Ensure that the timer lets the user know when the timer runs out
    - Ensure that the timer is reset when the game is finished
- Score
    - Ensure that the score goes up when the user types the word correctly
    - Ensure that the score is reset when the game is finished
    - Ensure that the final score is displayed when the game is finished.
- Begin button
    - Ensure that the begin button cannot be clicked when a game is already started
    - Ensure that after a game is finished the begin button can be clicked again
    - Ensure that correct difficulty is used when you begin
- Word Input
    - Check that before the game has begun you will not be able to input anything
    - Ensure after the game begins you will be able to input
    - Ensure that when the game begins the input is focused so it is easy to type and user can start typing immediately.
    - Make sure that the input is reset when a word is typed correctly
    - Ensure that it only gives the next new word when the correct word is typed out
- Word Display
    - Ensure that a random word is displayed when the game starts
    - Ensure that after every correct word another word is displayed
    - Ensure that when a correct letter is typed it can be seen
    - Ensure that when an incorrect letter is typed it can be seen
- Responsive
    - Ensure that the instructions page is responsive for phones and displayed properly (eg tested IPhone 6+ and above and IPhone 6 and below)
    - Ensure that the loading page is responsive for phones and displayed properly (eg tested IPhone 6+ and above and IPhone 6 and below)
    - Ensure that the game page is responsive for phones and displayed properly (eg tested IPhone 6+ and above and IPhone 6 and below)
# Deployment
[Page is here](https://supernovav2.github.io/IDAssignment3TypingGame/)
    - Downloading this website locally:
        - After signing into GitHub/Making a new account clone the project
        - Download the code and open the website through a source-code editor like visual studio code
# Pitch
[Pitch](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_MYyBaQS3opBx5nb5PMNOe58zHJ2xsmZ/view?usp=sharing)
# Credits
- Content
    - [Youtube video #1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-7eQIHRszQ)
    - [Youtube video #2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yw-SYSG-028)
    - [Codepen](https://codepen.io/VonHeikemen/pen/yLNzGEo)
    - [Play Button](https://codepen.io/Krar/pen/qYLzXN)
    - [Begin Button](https://www.fabriziovanmarciano.com/button-styles/)
    - [Radio Button](https://markheath.net/post/customize-radio-button-css)
- Media
    - The animation used in loading page is from [LottieAnimations](https://lottiefiles.com/)
- Acknowledgements
    - I received inspiration for this project from all the various youtube videos which i have credited above.

Commit message:

Changes made by sharuk16 reverted back to original before deadline submission

README.md, after:

# Website done by Ellappan Keerthivasan(S10205505)
- I would like to disclose that this entire website is done by myself only and my partner has not put in any form of contribution at all. Hence, i would like for you to consider this as my individual assignment and not pair work.
# NitroTyper Game
In this project the goal of the project is to make a typing/speed typing game where the user will type the random words gotten through an api before the time given runs out. If the word is typed out correctly user will gain 1 score. This project will fall under Theme 4 Gamer Crazy and is casual, entertaining and educational. Its a game you can just play to test your skills to have fun making it casual and entertaining it is also educational as you will be able to learn new words through the random words you will be typing all while improving your typing speed which is useful in this technology-based era. The game will also have different difficulty modes such as easy, medium and hard so people from all different types of typing speed will be able to enjoy themselves or for those who would like more of a challenge.
# Design Process
This website will be for anyone who would like to challenge themselves, improve their typing speed or just have a fun friendly competition. Hence, i decided to make it simplistic yet interactive and attentive. I decided to do this by making the website from simple colors with contrast and adding alot of animation to the game itself making it attractive and interesting yet smooth. This game will able the user to have fun playing a typing game while learning new words and improving their typing speed all at once.
- As a user, i want to be able to have different difficulties baseed on my skill level.
- As a user, i want the game to be smooth and easy on the eyes.
- As a user, i want interesting animations to make the game more unique.
- [ADOBE XD Wireframe](https://xd.adobe.com/view/b9c97b7a-c4ff-4405-ab44-d11395ed72df-ec9a/)
# Features
Difficulty -  Allows user to choose the difficulty that they desire easy, medium or hard.
Begin button - Game starts when they press begin not immediately when brought to site unlike other websites.
Letter Coloring - Allows to user to know if the letter they typed is correct or wrong easily.
Timer - Allows the user to see how much time is left before the game is over
Score - Allows the user to see their current score in the game
# Technologies Used
- [Jquery](https://jquery.com/)
    - The project uses JQuery to simplify DOM manipulation
- HTML
    - This project uses HTML to code the website itself.
- CSS
    - This project uses CSS to beautify the website itself.
- Javascript
    - This project uses javascript to make the game itself.
- [RandomWordAPI](https://random-word-api.herokuapp.com/home)
- Adobe XD
    - To make the wireframe for this project
# Testing
- Automated Testing
    - [W3C MarkUp Validation](https://validator.w3.org)
    - [W3C CSS Validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
    - [JS Validation](https://jshint.com/)
- Instructions page
    - Try to click on the play button and ensure it works
- Loading page
    - Ensure that the game is loaded when the loading from the loading page is finished
- Difficulty
    - Ensure that the difficulties can be clicked on
    - Ensure that easy mode is as described in instructions
    - Ensure that medium mode is as described in instructions
    - Ensure that hard mode is as described in instructions
    - Ensure that the game after finished and difficulty is changed it changes accordingly
    - Ensure that difficulty is defaulted to easy
- Timer
    - Ensure that the timer works properly and goes down every second
    - Ensure that the timer when reaches 0 the game stops
    - Ensure that in easy mode the timer gains 4 seconds per correct word
    - Ensure that in medium mode the timer gains 3 seconds per correct word
    - Ensure that in hard mode the timer gains 2 seconds per correct word
    - Ensure that the timer lets the user know when the timer runs out
    - Ensure that the timer is reset when the game is finished
- Score
    - Ensure that the score goes up when the user types the word correctly
    - Ensure that the score is reset when the game is finished
    - Ensure that the final score is displayed when the game is finished.
- Begin button
    - Ensure that the begin button cannot be clicked when a game is already started
    - Ensure that after a game is finished the begin button can be clicked again
    - Ensure that correct difficulty is used when you begin
- Word Input
    - Check that before the game has begun you will not be able to input anything
    - Ensure after the game begins you will be able to input
    - Ensure that when the game begins the input is focused so it is easy to type and user can start typing immediately.
    - Make sure that the input is reset when a word is typed correctly
    - Ensure that it only gives the next new word when the correct word is typed out
- Word Display
    - Ensure that a random word is displayed when the game starts
    - Ensure that after every correct word another word is displayed
    - Ensure that when a correct letter is typed it can be seen
    - Ensure that when an incorrect letter is typed it can be seen
- Responsive
    - Ensure that the instructions page is responsive for phones and displayed properly (eg tested IPhone 6+ and above and IPhone 6 and below)
    - Ensure that the loading page is responsive for phones and displayed properly (eg tested IPhone 6+ and above and IPhone 6 and below)
    - Ensure that the game page is responsive for phones and displayed properly (eg tested IPhone 6+ and above and IPhone 6 and below)
# Deployment
[Page is here](https://supernovav2.github.io/IDAssignment3TypingGame/)
    - Downloading this website locally:
        - After signing into GitHub/Making a new account clone the project
        - Download the code and open the website through a source-code editor like visual studio code
# Pitch
[Pitch](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_MYyBaQS3opBx5nb5PMNOe58zHJ2xsmZ/view?usp=sharing)
# Credits
- Content
    - [Youtube video #1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-7eQIHRszQ)
    - [Youtube video #2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yw-SYSG-028)
    - [Codepen](https://codepen.io/VonHeikemen/pen/yLNzGEo)
    - [Play Button](https://codepen.io/Krar/pen/qYLzXN)
    - [Begin Button](https://www.fabriziovanmarciano.com/button-styles/)
    - [Radio Button](https://markheath.net/post/customize-radio-button-css)
- Media
    - The animation used in loading page is from [LottieAnimations](https://lottiefiles.com/)
- Acknowledgements
    - I received inspiration for this project from all the various youtube videos which i have credited above.
